Definitions
============

Through the documents definitions it is made the mapping of the documents.

The definitions are done in the static function **define** of the documents, which inherit of the **MondongoDocument** class.

    [php]
    class Article extends MondongoDocument
    {
      static public function define($definition)
      {
        // ...
      }
    }

Fields
------

The fields are the data of the document.

The can be assigned one by one or all at the same time.

    [php]
    // one by one
    $definition->setField('title', 'string');

    // all at the same time (resets)
    $definition->setFields(array(
      'title'   => 'string',
      'content' => 'string',
    ));

In strings or arrays:

    [php]
    $definition->setField('title', 'string');

    $definition->setField('title', array('type' => 'string'));

Assigning required (by default true) and default value (by default null):

    [php]
    $definition->setField('is_active', array('type' => 'boolean', 'required' => true, 'default' => false));

Mondongo comes with several types defined by default:

  * array (serialized arrays)
  * bin_data (files up to 4 MB)
  * boolean (booleans)
  * date (dates)
  * file (files with GridFS)
  * float (floating numbers)
  * id (mongo id)
  * integer (integers)
  * raw (without processing)
  * string (strings)

Custom types can be built, later we'll see how.

References
-----------

References are relations to other documents.

To define them we have to indicate the name of the reference, type, model and field in which the reference is stored:

They can be to one:

    [php]
    $definition->setField('author_id', 'id');

    $definition->reference('author', array('type' => 'one', 'model' => 'Author', 'field' => 'author_id'));

Or to many:

    [php]
    $definition->setField('category_ids', 'raw');

    $definition->reference('categories', array('type' => 'many', 'model' => 'Category', 'field' => 'category_ids'));

Embeds
---------

Embeds are documents inside the documents.

They are defined in the same way as regular documents, except that they inherit from MondongoDocumentEmbed and can not have more embeds.
    [php]
    class Address extends MondongoDocumentEmbed
    {
      static public function define($definition)
      {
        $definition->setFields(array(
          'address' => 'string',
          'city'    => 'string',
        ));
      }
    }

To define the embeds in documents you have to assign the name, type and model.

You can be embed one:

    [php]
    $definition->embed(array('type' => 'one', 'model' => 'Address'));

Or many:

    [php]
    $definition->embed(array('type' => 'many', 'model' => 'Comment'));

Relations
----------

Relations are relations from other documents.

To define them you must indicate the name of the relation, type, model and the field from which it is referenced.

They can be from one:

    [php]
    $definition->relation('address', array('type' => 'one', 'model' => 'Address', 'field' => 'author_id'));

Or from many:

    [php]
    $definition->relation('articles', array('type' => 'many', 'model' => 'Article', 'field' => 'author_id'));

Connection
--------

You can indicate the connection for the document; if it is not defined the it is used the default connection.

    [php]
    $definition->setConnection('global');

Collection
---------

You can also indicate the collection for the document, and in case it is not indicated it is used the **underscore** of the document name.

    [php]
    $definition->setCollection('articles');
